
<!-- ======================================================================= -->
# a turning point

Each node tree `NT`, including each path graph, corresponds with a family of
sets that has certain characteristics. That is, a node tree can be transformed
into a family of scopes `S`, and such a family of scopes allows to recreate
the initial node tree.

Because of that, any node tree can be described in terms of a family of scopes
or another equivalent construct (e.g. an actual node order, or a set of all
rooted paths `RP`). Because of that, any conclusion derived from a family of
scopes can be translated into the context of node trees, and vice versa.

Consequently, any node tree can and should be seen to represent an ordered set
of elements, the same way we look at the set of natural numbers. There isn't
much of a difference. After all, a total order is defined as a specialized
partial order. That is, partial orders are the default, not some odd "thing"
that can be ignored just because we are not used to partial orders.

Sure, if some current context can be restricted to a few square meters, one can
model our world as having a flat surface. After all, if one's area of concern
is limited enough, then earth's curvature can be ignored. However, that point of
view, as "good enough" at it might seem in a particular context, is from a wider
perspective just "not good enough". Even worse, rejecting the widened point of
view on a global scale has the effect of keeping us from having to accept that
there is more, a lot more one should be aware of.

The difference between total orders and partial orders is similar since flat
documents will only get us to a certain point. After that, one can not do
without an extended order-/set-based perspective:

Each node tree is isomorphic to a family of scopes. Because of that, one can not
only focus on tags/markup, and maybe even document trees, since one must also
accept the rules of Graph Theory (GT), Order Theory (OT), Category Theory (CT)
and even Set Theory (ST). That is, if you want to end up with a solution that
can be guaranteed to get the job done, then there is only one true option:

Accept it for what it is.
